docs: terraform comparison (#463)
nitrictech/docs: src/pages/faq/comparison/terraform.mdx

export const description = 'Comparison to Terraform'

# Terraform vs. Nitric

> NOTE: Nitric is not designed to replace IaC tools like Terraform, but instead introduces a method of bringing developer self service for infrastructure directly into the developer application (Nitric's default deployment engines are built with Pulumi).

> > Nitric can be augmented through use of tools like Pulumi and even be fully customized using such tools see [Custom Providers]() for more details

Reviewer: Missing link

Nitric is a framework designed to aid developers in building full cloud applications, including declaring their infrastructure and application code in one place. Terraform is an Infrastructure as Code tool that enables explicit definition of infrastructure using HCL (or programming languages using tf-cdk). The main differences between these are:

1. Nitric is cloud-agnostic, code that is written using nitric constructs can be deployed to any cloud. Terraform supports many clouds, infrastructure declarations are explicitly defined for the provider that a resource is provided by.

1. Nitric defines not only the infrastructure but how it is interacted with at runtime, so infrastructure can be automatically inferred from application code to ensure best practice deployments and least privilege security.

1. Nitric provides tools for locally simulating a cloud environment (using the nitric CLI), to allow application to be tested locally. Pulumi programs can be unit tested but applications written to be deployed will need a separate solution for local development such as LocalStack.

# Side by Side

> To showcase the power of the abstraction provided by nitric here is a showcase of a nitric program with an equivalent Terraform configuration with application code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To showcase the power of the abstraction provided by Nitric here is a showcase of a Nitric program with an equivalent Terraform configuration with application code.
```

  assume_role_policy = jsonencode({
    Version = "2012-10-17"
    Statement = [
      {
        Action = "sts:AssumeRole"
        Effect = "Allow"
        Principal = {
          Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
        }
      }
    ]
  })
}

resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "lambda_policy" {
  name = "lambda_policy"
  role = aws_iam_role.lambda_role.id

  policy = jsonencode({
    Version = "2012-10-17"
    Statement = [
      {
        Action = [
          "logs:CreateLogGroup",
          "logs:CreateLogStream",
          "logs:PutLogEvents"
        ]
        Effect   = "Allow"
        Resource = "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
      },
      {
        Action = [
          "s3:PutObject"
        ]
        Effect   = "Allow"
        Resource = "${aws_s3_bucket.this.arn}/*"
      }
    ]
  })
}

output "bucket_name" {
  value = aws_s3_bucket.this.bucket
}

output "lambda_function_name" {
  value = aws_lambda_function.this.function_name
}
```

```javascript {{title: 'Terraform', label: 'src/index.js'}}
const AWS = require('aws-sdk')

exports.handler = async (event) => {
  const {
    s3: { object },
  } = event
  console.log(object.key, 'was created')
}
```

</CodeGroup>

> > In the pulumi example we get control over absolutely every facet of our infrastructure which is great, but for the majority of use cases a repeatable pattern of deployment is enough and scales much better than applying fine grained configuration every time we need to define a new deployment (with Pulumi this would typically be done by sharing infrastructure as libraries e.g. Pulumi Crosswalks).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In the Pulumi example we get control over absolutely every facet of our infrastructure which is great, but for the majority of use cases, a repeatable pattern of deployment is enough and scales much better than applying fine-grained configuration every time we need to define a new deployment (with Pulumi this would typically be done by sharing infrastructure as libraries e.g. Pulumi Crosswalks).
```

Reviewer: Shouldnt it be terraform?

export const description = 'Comparison to Terraform'

# Terraform vs. Nitric

<Note>
  Nitric is not designed to replace IaC tools like Terraform but instead
  introduces a method of bringing developer self-service for infrastructure
  directly into the developer application (Nitric's default deployment engines

>   are built with Pulumi). Nitric can be augmented through use of tools like
>   Pulumi and even be fully customized using such tools see [Custom

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  are built with Pulumi). Nitric can be augmented through use of tools like
  Pulumi or Terraform and even be fully customized using such tools see [Custom
```

>   Providers](/docs/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider) for more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Providers](/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider) for more
```

Reviewer: docs is the basePath of the next project so doesn't require it again.

  details.
</Note>

Nitric is a framework designed to aid developers in building full cloud applications, including infrastructure. [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is an Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tool that enables explicit definition of infrastructure using HCL (or programming languages using [CDKTF](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cdktf)). The main differences between these are:

1. Nitric is cloud-agnostic, code that is written using Nitric constructs can be deployed to any cloud. Terraform supports many clouds, infrastructure declarations are explicitly defined for the provider that a resource is provided by.

2. Nitric defines not only the infrastructure but how it is interacted with at runtime, so infrastructure can be automatically inferred from application code to ensure best practice deployments and least privilege security.

> 3. Nitric provides tools for locally simulating a cloud environment (using the Nitric CLI), to allow an application to be tested locally. Pulumi programs can be unit tested but applications written to be deployed will need a separate solution for local development such as LocalStack.

Reviewer 3: Says "Pulumi programs can be unit tested..." should this talk about Terraform testing/local development options instead?

Author: fixed, and added notes on linting/validation/contract testing for terraform

    filter_prefix       = "AWSLogs/"
    filter_suffix       = ".log"
  }

  depends_on = [aws_lambda_permission.allow_bucket]
}

resource "aws_iam_role" "lambda_role" {
  name = "lambda_role"

  assume_role_policy = jsonencode({
    Version = "2012-10-17"
    Statement = [
      {
        Action = "sts:AssumeRole"
        Effect = "Allow"
        Principal = {
          Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
        }
      }
    ]
  })
}

resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "lambda_policy" {
  name = "lambda_policy"
  role = aws_iam_role.lambda_role.id

  policy = jsonencode({
    Version = "2012-10-17"
    Statement = [
      {
        Action = [
          "logs:CreateLogGroup",
          "logs:CreateLogStream",
          "logs:PutLogEvents"
        ]
        Effect   = "Allow"
        Resource = "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
      },
      {
        Action = [
          "s3:PutObject"
        ]
        Effect   = "Allow"
        Resource = "${aws_s3_bucket.this.arn}/*"
      }
    ]
  })
}

output "bucket_name" {
  value = aws_s3_bucket.this.bucket
}

output "lambda_function_name" {
  value = aws_lambda_function.this.function_name
}
```

</CodeGroup>

> > In the Terraform example we get control over absolutely every facet of our infrastructure which is great, but for the majority of use cases, a repeatable pattern of deployment is enough and scales much better than applying fine-grained configuration every time we need to define a new deployment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Note>In the Terraform example we get control over absolutely every facet of our infrastructure which is great, but for the majority of use cases, a repeatable pattern of deployment is enough and scales much better than applying fine-grained configuration every time we need to define a new deployment.</Note>
```

> The below table contains the main differences that you can see in the code examples, and also some that cannot fit in such a small app, but we still would like you to know about :)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The table below contains the main differences you can see in the code examples, and also some that cannot fit in such a small app, but we'd like you to know about 🙂
```

  Providers](/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider) for more
  details.
</Note>

Nitric is a framework designed to aid developers in building full cloud applications, including infrastructure. [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is an Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tool that enables explicit definition of infrastructure using HCL (or programming languages using [CDKTF](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cdktf)). The main differences between these are:

1. Nitric is cloud-agnostic, code that is written using Nitric constructs can be deployed to any cloud. Terraform supports many clouds, infrastructure declarations are explicitly defined for the provider that a resource is provided by.

2. Nitric defines not only the infrastructure but how it is interacted with at runtime, so infrastructure can be automatically inferred from application code to ensure best practice deployments and least privilege security.

3. Nitric provides tools for locally simulating a cloud environment (using the Nitric CLI), to allow an application to be tested locally. Terraform can be validated and linted as well as contract tested using terraform specific tooling.

> # Side by Side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Code Comparison
```

Reviewer: To match the others

> # Code Comparison

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Code Comparison
```

      {
        Action = "sts:AssumeRole"
        Effect = "Allow"
        Principal = {
          Service = "lambda.amazonaws.com"
        }
      }
    ]
  })
}

resource "aws_iam_role_policy" "lambda_policy" {
  name = "lambda_policy"
  role = aws_iam_role.lambda_role.id

  policy = jsonencode({
    Version = "2012-10-17"
    Statement = [
      {
        Action = [
          "logs:CreateLogGroup",
          "logs:CreateLogStream",
          "logs:PutLogEvents"
        ]
        Effect   = "Allow"
        Resource = "arn:aws:logs:*:*:*"
      },
      {
        Action = [
          "s3:PutObject"
        ]
        Effect   = "Allow"
        Resource = "${aws_s3_bucket.this.arn}/*"
      }
    ]
  })
}

output "bucket_name" {
  value = aws_s3_bucket.this.bucket
}

output "lambda_function_name" {
  value = aws_lambda_function.this.function_name
}
```

</CodeGroup>

<Note>
  In the Terraform example we get control over absolutely every facet of our
  infrastructure which is great, but for the majority of use cases, a repeatable
  pattern of deployment is enough and scales much better than applying
  fine-grained configuration every time we need to define a new deployment.
</Note>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Differences

```
